# Week 6 Journal


## [Reading](http://historyinthecity.blogspot.com/2013/11/before-i-start-i-want-to-thank-people.html)

I found Michelle Moravec's article and presentation really interesting in how she went about it. The fact that she went to see what collocated with "the" was surprising to me since usually "the" is featured prominently on the ignore list in textual analysis. But how she went about it by comparing Schneemann's use of the word compared to those she was receiving letters from made sense. If one was using a specific word more often than their recipient, was a good way of using the textual analysis to shape further analysis. She used the macro view to narrow down her focus to the micro view, which showed how good research is done. You use what you've found to lead you to explore another aspect of it in order to explain something. 


## My Work

I was exploring the various resources in the [twitter thread](https://twitter.com/amaliasl/status/1245544256212807680) and came accross the [Digital Transgender Arhchive](https://www.digitaltransgenderarchive.net/). With the current climate of lgbtq+ acceptance growing, I wanted to understand the movement better as I know it is not a recent development. I perused the collections looking for something that would be useful to me, namely some form of letters or diary, and saw the [Boys Will be Boys](https://www.digitaltransgenderarchive.net/col/1r66j121q) collection which piqued my interest as it was about the FTM(Female to Male) experience in the early 1990s. I thought this would be interesting to explore as a lot of the discussion today regarding transgender acceptance is often coded primarily about MTF(Male to Female), see discourse surrounding gendered bathrooms, etc.. So I decided I wanted to work with this collection as it had 8 monthly newsletters as part of the collection so it was primarily text and dealt with both articles, and letters to the editor to represent the readers and their experiences.

The sources were relatively clear, however they posed a challenge since they were newsletters and had multiple columns per page, meaning that if I wanted to OCR the data, I would have a jumbled mess. So I ended up copy/pasting from the pdfs since they supported that, which led to some jumbling of text since sometimes two newsletter pages were scanned to one pdf page, with the second or last page appearing before the first page, but that was minimal compared to how messy it was earlier. This really made me think about how much time it would take to get this small collection of newsletters into proper shape for a proper analysis. There would be a significant amount of work to re-organize everything, and then after that clean the data as well. For my purposes I did not clean the data because at a first glance, the data copied from the pdfs were fairly good. I still ran into some instances where I think it would have been smart to clean the data a little, but due to not leaving myself much time to work I focused elsewhere. This would only be more pronounced the larger the database was.

To analyze the data, I uploaded my corpus to Voyant Tools, mainly to look at the Word Map to see what terms were the most prevelant terms were. The results did not surprise me much, as some of the main words were "FTM, Newsletter, Boys, New, Gender, like, time, men, know, man". While this did not surprise me much, it surprised me that there were no terms that stood out significantly in the Cirrus. FTM had the most mentions at 56, and then man was the 10th most mentioned with 32 mentions. Looking through the documents, it became clear why FTM, Newsletter, and Boys were some of the most used terms. FTM would be used both in articles to describe people's gender, but also as headlines, and also to introduce people to community extensions located elsewhere. Newsletter is obviously self-referential where readers wrote in and mentioned the newsletter, as well as the term appearing in headlines, etc. The same goes for Boys, which saw a lot of use as it was the title of the newsletter. 

As I was exploring the data, I did not find many really interesting findings, that may be due to not cleaning the text, there not being much of a corpus to search, or a myriad of other reasons. But this research goes directly into how the transgender community felt and how they communicated in a time before the internet was able to connect people. If this collection had more documents in it, I think it would be interesting to see a network analysis done on it to show the spread of people that it connected. The text would need to be categorized into indivudual letters first, and cleaned which would be a large amount of effort. I believe that there would be a few central nodes, such as the editors, but it would be interesting to see as time went on who kept contributing and who only contributed occaisonally. 

I also used voyant briefly to look at Topics and the TermsBerry, a personal favourite tool of mine in Voyant. 


I then used AntConc to do a bit of a deeper dive into the text, sort of in the vein of Michelle Moravec, but to a lesser degree with less interesting results. I primarily looked at how the term "ftm" and "gender" were used. 

For FTM, it collocated the most with the address used by a United States Transsexual group that the group started in Australia communicated with. Another one that it collocated often with was "The" which makes is often because they referred to various FTM Groups/organizations as they wanted to connect their community with other communities of similar people in order to share their experiences. 

Similarly, I found it interesting that Gender collocated with groups, as it also shows how the Boys Will be Boys community was reaching out to other gendered groups. Unsurprisingly Gender also collocated with Issues, as Gender Issues is an umbrella term used to describe issues faced by the transgender community. What was nice to see was that Gender also collocated with My, as people often used it to assert their own gender in a space they felt free to express themselves.


For my exploration, I tried to follow a similar method as Michelle Moravec, using the macro view to narrow my research into a micro view of the data worked fairly well, and would have worked better if I left myself more time to do the analysis, and if I had a bigger corpus to work with.

I go more into the work I did this week on my site [here](https://williamkohlman.github.io/William-Kohlman.github.io/Week6.html)
